I)BASIC INFORMATION
Undergraduate population: about 4200 students
Financial aid policy: Need blind admission for international students starting academic year 2008-2009.
Ranking: #11 in USNews ranking
Most popular majors: Government, Economics, Psychology, History, English, Biology, Engineering.
Prestige: Dartmouth is a member of the Ivy League, group of North Eastern colleges that composed of: Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, Princeton, Yale, Upenn.

II) ACADEMICS AT DARTMOUTH

a) Academic Calendar
Dartmouth operates around the D-plan:

http://www.dartmouth.edu/~ugar/premajor/fa...book/dplan.html
I will let you guys figure what the D-plan is by going to the website. Dartmouth does not have semesters, it runs by terms. Each term is 10 weeks long, except winter term is 9 weeks long. Each Dartmouth students take 3 classes per term, maximum of 4 classes/term. You can drop one class but you can only do this three times throughout your Dartmouth&#39;s career. My view on this system is that I like and do not like it. Let&#39;s talk about why I dont like it. I dont like it because the term goes by so fast that what other colleges learn in a semester long, you are covering in 10 weeks. However, you are only taking three classes so that balances out. The most disturbing about this system is that Dartmouth starts really late( late September), which is one month after most other colleges, while it ends really late(beginning of June), which is also about one month after most colleges. I hate seeing my friends leave for colleges, having no one to hang out with, and then to see them hangout at the end of the year while I am still sitting my *** in Berry Library to write papers and study for exams. However, what I like about the quarter system is that you can basically select your off-terms at your will to fit with your schedule(please review the D-plan for this). For example, I can take a term off in the winter(january-march) to do an internship and make up for that off-term in the summer. That&#39;s a nice thing about the academic calendar here.

b) The real academics:
So the stereotype is that: "Hey, Dartmouth is an Ivy League school, therefore it should have top-notch academics." Yes & No.While Dartmouth employs top professors in their fields, it does not necessarily mean that they know how to teach. It does mean that sometimes you are sitting in class listening to influential people in their fields but you may as well fall asleep because these guys have been spending their whole lives trying to be influential in their fields. :p However, I have taken more worthwhile classes than boring, heartbreaking here at Dartmouth. The nice thing about Dartmouth is that it is really undergraduate-focused(besides Tuck school of Business, other grad schools are not that popular) so "MOST" professors do care about their undergraduate students since they do not have to teach other graduate classes. At Dartmouth, you are given opportunities to engage in independent research through numerous grants that the college give you. In your junior year, you can also participate in a one on one research with a faculty member, if that faculty chooses you. So for those of you who enjoy doing research, there are plenty at Dartmouth.

I think the defining Dartmouth&#39;s academic experience is their study-abroad program, considered the top program in the Ivy League. Close to 50 % of Dartmouth students go abroad during their Dartmouth&#39;s career. I am applying for a Fall term Government program at LSE in London this year. Next year&#39;s Spring, I am also going to be in Lyon to hone my French language skill(I am taking French at Dartmouth). I think this is very nice of Dartmouth because you kinda get tired of being in the middle of no where after a while. An escape from the little town of Hanover is nice. When I return my senior year, I will be so refreshed and prepared to enjoy my senior year at Dartmouth. So dont be too worried about the location of the college because the institution does provide you the opportunity to get out of the place(they do realize that some students get sick of it after all :p )

Up until here, some of you may say: "Ok, we kinda all heard the same thing from other colleges&#39; web sites" So what distinguishes Dartmouth from the rest. This is my answer: STUDENTS. This is actually the biggest benefit of attending an Ivy League school. Since the prestige of the school draws so many talented applicants, Dartmouth presents you with a class of incredible individuals. I learn a lot from my classmates and friends on campus. I would say its 50-50 between professors and students. Before coming here, I would say I was kinda something in Vietnam. Now, I am basically nothing... If you are not strong, this can drastically affect your self-esteem. I would not lie here that I am used to be in the spot-light so I feel very very bad being a normal student among the crowd here. I feel like I am an ant among a bunch of elephants. Yet, this is what is rewarding about the education here. The excellence of other students push you hard and keeps on making you better. I am always amazed at the things that people do whenever I meet with someone. Every individual here is really that unique. If you were to ask me if there is a typical Dartmouth student, I would say no. Its really diverse here.
